US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
has called on Israel to protect
civilians as its forces close in on Gaza
City meeting with Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu in Tel Aviv blinkon
repeated that Israel has the right and
obligation to defend itself so that
militants can no longer Massacre people
on its soil and he called for a pause in
the fighting to allow Aid and Essentials
into
Gaza I've seen images
too of Palestinian children young boys
and girls pulled from the wreckage of
buildings when I see
that when I look into their eyes through
the TV
screen I see my own children we need to
do more to protect Palestinian
civilians we've been clear that as
Israel conducts his campaign to defeat
Hamas how it does so matters I spoke to
Israeli leaders about tangible steps
that can be taken to increase the
sustained delivery of food water
medicine Fuel and other essential needs
while putting in place measures to
prevent diversion by Hamas and other
terrorist groups uh We've identified
mechanisms to enable fuel to reach
hospitals and other needs in the South
Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu said his country would press
on with its action in
Gaza we're continuing with all our
strength and Israel is refusing a
temporary truce that does not include
the release of our
hostages Israel will not enable the
entry of fuel into Gaza and opposes
transferring money to the
strip our correspondent Tanya Kramer
followed blink's visit today she joins
me now from Jerusalem Tanya the
Secretary of State stressed the need for
humanitarian Aid and for humanitarian
pauses as he called them in Gaza what
influence could his appeals have on
Israel's future course of
action well that's why we've seen much
more pressure from the US now more
emphasis on this humanitarian Aid and
the humanitarian pauses as he called it
uh he said there would be some
mechanisms now put in place talking
about you know at the moment only dozens
of trucks of course coming into Gaza
from Egypt that is beyond the need for
the Gaza population there um and at the
moment also the movement of people is
very restricted we only see Palestinians
with dual citizenship coming out of
course the majority of Palestinians if
they would like to they cannot uh get
out of Gaza uh but of course he also
talked about the humanitarian pauses uh
but that he said this is still under
discussion and he said you know there's
still discussion about when this will
happen how it will happen and we heard
also the um prime minister Benyamin
netan then after this press conference
by um Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
actually rejecting the idea uh of having
a temporary ceasefire or such a
humanitarian pause if hostages are not
released so uh at the moment there don't
seem to be a breakthrough in having any
of of a of a sort of ceasefire that is
actually what humanitarian organizations
and the United Nations have called for
given this catastrophic situation for
the civilian population in Gaza yeah uh
just today the Israeli military said it
hit an ambulance near gaza's biggest
Hospital the alifa hospital what more do
we know at this
stage
well we don't know uh all the details
the Hamas Health officials have said
that um in Gaza that it was uh
transporting that it was a convoy going
from the alifa hospital that's the
largest hospital in Gaza City where also
a lot of uh people are seeking shelter
or trying to seek shelter uh that this
uh Convoy of ambulances was hit at the
entrance of this uh of of shifa Hospital
uh there were on their way to rafar this
is from the officials there but we also
got a statement now by the Israeli army
they confirmed that it targeted an
ambulance they're talking here about an
ambulance outside chiffa hospital and
they claim it was used by Hamas and it
was uh in a in close proximity to a uh a
battle Zone as they put it they also
said they will release more information
uh in the hours uh to come Tanya Kramer
with the latest from Jerusalem thanks
for that
and Aaron David Miller is a senior
fellow at carnegi Endowment for decades
he worked at the US state department on
the US policy on the Middle East Mr
Miller welcome back to DW now prime
minister Netanyahu had said calls for a
ceasefire would equal calls for Israel
to surrender today we heard him connect
the possibility of a temporary truce to
Hamas releasing its hostages how big a
shift is this in his
position well if in fact the prime
minister is offering a trade uh
temporary ceasefire for the release of
all the
hostages uh I think that's probably a
deal the
Israelis uh might might want to make if
it's just a release of the foreign
Nationals leaving the Israelis um Jewish
Israelis behind or Israeli Nationals
behind they may not all be Jewish I'm
not sure that the uh government is
prepared to accept that but the reality
is the hostage negotiations are
incredibly opaque neither you nor I
frankly have the vaguest clue about what
is actually happening in these days of
negotiations moderated by the cutteries
and the Egyptians the Israelis and the
Americans we just don't know yeah and I
did speak to someone familiar with the
hostage negotiations though and they
said Hamas won't release the hostages
until the bombing stops which
you know when Netanyahu says we will
stop the bombing once the hostages are
released and Hamas says we will release
the hostages once the bombing stops
where does that leave
us well you could try a thought
experiment or you could test hamas's
Intentions by creating a you can even uh
you know create a humanitarian
pause for 6 8 10 24 hours do you think
that's something that that is would go
for um just to try it out saying that it
would you know or given what they've
been saying about about the risks that
truce is bear for them especially now
when they say that they have encircled
Gaza City right well they they don't
have to leave their established
positions I mean a 12-hour humanitarian
truce or a series of humanitarian trues
in in localized areas to allow
humanitarian assistance in and to allow
wounded and incapacitated uh
Palestinians to move into safer areas
might be something worth trying what
they won't do is create an extended
ceasefire that needs to be
negotiated the real question is if Hamas
put on the table the release of all of
the hostages the 240 estimated humans
that they
have would the Israelis
agree uh to Cease the Bombing and then
of course for how long once Hamas uh
frees the hostages one of
their uh points of Leverage in their
cards then dissipate so I don't know and
again Hamas has also wanted the release
of the anywhere from 5 to 6,000
Palestinian prisoners uh who are the
Israelis now hold a third of them uh
without without trial and administrative
detention so that's another angle here I
again I not trying to be difficult but I
really think we don't have anything
remotely resembling a a fair grasp yeah
of what these proposals really involve
yeah the situation in Gaza is becoming
more and more hellish by the day um
secretary estate Anthony blinkin was
clear today when he said it matters how
Israel does this now with the
humanitarian crisis deteriorating will
the US be forced at some point to draw a
red line for Israel in its fight against
Hamas and
Gaza well the question is what what red
line are we talking about if we're
talking about an American president
saying to an Israeli Prime Minister
stop
enough stop the campaign stop the
bombing stop your operations against
hamas's infrastructure first of all that
conversation I I cannot
imagine uh happening so when you talk
about a red line the question question
is exactly what line aren't the Israelis
uh permitted to
cross and I'm not sure um that this
president or frankly any president under
these circumstances are prepared to have
that conversation the real the question
to me and I can't answer it is when the
secretary of state says he's discussing
with the Israelis concrete measures that
will prevent the deaths of Palestinian
civilians and allow these Isis to
continue their military operations to
eradicate H what concrete measures is he
talking about yeah yeah I've seen only
two options for the Israelis number one
stop the bombing encircle Gaza and then
go house by house with bulldozers their
Engineers their uh demolition experts
their special ops house by house it'll
take weeks if not months and the cost to
Israeli
soldiers would likely be in the hundreds
if not the thousands that's one
possibility yeah I can't imagine this is
really government being willing to
accept that level of of uh the deaths of
its own soldiers second option is to uh
stop the gr
campaign and pursue a more targeted set
of
operations that would last months and
that for sure the Israelis are not going
to accept because that will permit Hamas
to remain uh with its assets with the
hostages yeah for a very long period of
time I just don't think there is an
answer yeah to the problem of how you
eradicate Hamas and still protect
civilians yeah seem to be bad options at
this point we'll have to leave it there
we're unfortunately running out of time
that was Aaron David Miller from the
carnegi and down thank you so much for
all of
that thank
you now Israel says its troops have
fully surrounded Gaza City that became
the focus for attacks when Israel
ordered civilians to flee South those
still trapped in the city are now at
grave
risk explosions continued to rock gaza's
north even as Israel's military said its
troops had fully encircled Gaza
City Israel's military released these
videos as its soldiers prepared to enter
the city backed by more military force
hitting Gaza simultaneously from many
fronts Israel Defense Forces have
encircled GSA from the air Land and Sea
they've encircled the city of Gaza and
its surroundings are advancing troops
are destroying terrorist infrastructures
both above the ground and underground
and they're eliminating
terrorists Israel's military says that
its operations killed over 100 Hamas
militants but International
organizations warn that the civilian
toll on the Palestinian side is
increasing by the day amid a worsening
humanitarian
crisis to sustain the humanitarian
response on the scale needed we need
hundreds of tracks to inter Gaza every
day at the very least
we need a humanitarian pose in the
fighting and ideally a
ceasefire let me be clear there can be
no justification for hamas's horrific
attacks on Israel the Gaza Health
Ministry run by Hamas says over 9,000
people have been killed with Gaza City
fully surrounded the Gaza Strip home to
over 2 million people faces even more
Carnage
Israel continues to oppose calls for a
ceasefire Peter Lerner speaks for the
Israel Defense Forces and joins us from
Tel Aviv welcome back to DW um now
Israel says it has encircled Gaza what
happens
next i Phil thank you for having me
again I would say we are putting the
pressure up on Hamas in order to achieve
our goal of destroying and dismantling
this terrorist organization that
conducted the worst terrorist activity
the worst attack against Israel in the
history of our country indeed it is day
28 and we have been saying of the last
several weeks that we are expanding and
increasing our activities against Hamas
and this is the way we push forward uh
we continue to strike and and uh attack
the leadership the commanders the
operation operators the terrorist
infrastructure that is serving them and
this is what we are continuing to do we
heard in the report um Israel's claims
to have killed more than a 100 militants
um how do you verify
that I would say that was in just one
location that we identified
specifically uh in one in one battle on
in the area of B but there are hundreds
of terrorists that have been killed in
exchanges the battles are ongoing and
indeed there are uh face hand to hand or
face Toof face fights and exchanges with
terrorists all the time um as the as the
operation as the war moves forward and
so how do you verify the numbers
we have visual confirmation of the
different strikes where they're taking
place how the exchanges are taking place
the types of reports that the forces are
reporting back uh and that is how we are
confirming those
numbers what are you telling civilians
who are still in Gaza City the old the
young the sick uh the the people who
have just got nowhere else to go what
are you telling them as you surround the
city Phil with there are still excess
routs out of Gaza City and um and
towards the South we are still
encouraging people to move South and I
hope that they will listen if they
listen and
can't clearly that they're they're in
grave
danger no they as I just said there are
routs out of the city towards the South
they should listen and go your
government announced today that Gaz and
workers in Israel are being expelled and
sent back to Gaza into a war zone um R
DF our IDF
involved in those
expulsions no I think uh they actually
it was a return that was conducted
earlier today during the morning of uh
several thousand of uh several hundreds
of Palestinians that were stuck in
Israel uh during uh the war up until now
and they would returned to uh Gaza but I
can't confirm the the the magnitude of
that right how does Israel's duty to
protect because just on that one looks
at what's going on and one wonders how
your country's duty to protect civilians
how that squares with sending them into
a region that you are bombing at the
same
time again I can't discuss the the
details because I'm not clear on those
so I would rather not go into that now
Phil we can catch up at a later date if
You' like okay what security um so what
then are your plans for uh the south of
of Gaza this place where uh you keep
telling people to go which is still
subject to being uh bombed now that
Israel has surrounded Gaza City what are
your plans for the south of the
territory so the activities the
humanitarian activities as people
continue to move South which is a good
thing because they're moving out of the
the area where our forces are operating
on the ground is actually a good thing
that people are listening and moving
south um the it is safer and as you as
you rightly pointed out if Hamas
conducts attacks from the south they
will be targeted as well but the the
potential there of uh ground operations
currently is almost non-existent and and
and that is why we're telling people to
go south because the Beating Heart of
hamas's operation is in the North in
Gaza City and that is why for the last
three three weeks we've been encouraging
people to go south um in the South there
is a humanitarian uh
Zone excuse me uh designated in the
southwest area of a longer Coast called
the maasi that sa safe uh humanitarian
Zone and there is ongoing supplies and
medical supplies and food supplies that
are coming in through uh Rafa and of
course the the evacuation the emergency
evacuation of dual Nationals and foreign
Nationals from Rafa that you've covered
extensively over the last couple of days
um indeed this is the situation this is
the humanitarian situation we are at a
state of war with Hamas that continues
to attack launch rockets at Israel and
continues to try attack our forces
operating on the ground we will continue
until achieve our goal we'll leave it
there a Peter larner of the Israel
Defense Forces thank you so
much thank you
Phil Marina Moran joins me now she's a
military Analyst at Kings College London
Marina so what is next for the IDF after
it says it has encircled Gaza
City good evening Nicole well what it
looks like right now is that indeed
there is going to be a complete Siege of
the city what we're seeing here is the
city is being encircled in order to
control movements in and out of the city
but um Israel claims that they still
have left a W for civilians to leave and
they want the civilians out of the
theater of operations for obvious
reasons because they'll make it
difficult so we estimate that once some
civilians leave this wall will not be
open for a long time the isra the
Israeli forces will close the circle and
then start combing the cities Street by
Street house by house but Hamas Fighters
know the environment much better than
the IDF how much of a challenge will
that be for
them it is a huge challenge generally
speaking Urban Warfare is the most
dreaded type of warfare and specifically
because Hamas is on its own uh land so
to say they know every single street
corner and every single house basement
they have their extended um tunnel
Network as well so they have the
advantage there defending um Gaza City
and for the Israeli forces the risk is
very high so um it is pro probable that
there will be high casualties also on
the Israeli side this because the threat
is coming from all directions and even
using air power and using Naval assets
to strike Target targets within the city
is not going to minimize that risk let's
take a closer look at this tunnel system
the Gaza Metro as it's called how can
the Israeli Army go about destroying
that tunnel system which is what they're
aiming to do especially with Israeli
hostages believe to be held
there well I think the Crux of the
problem is indeed the Israeli hostages
because um the IDF could fill the
tunnels was gas I mean um these tunnels
need ventilation otherwise you cannot
use them and they could possibly bomp
the tunnels uh from not from the air but
directly by by throwing explosives they
have engineers and detonation experts
that could do that but the problem is
that you have the hostages there and you
don't know exactly from the Israeli
point of view the layout of those
tunnels how many levels they have and
where is a lead so there there is some
intelligence on that but it's very
difficult and it's going to be a huge
problem because uh Hamas Fighters can
pop up in any location because they know
that system very well and surprise the
Israeli forces so that that will be the
most difficult component of this urban
fight is to control the tunnel system or
destroy
it uh Marina there has been strong
condemnation around the world of the
civilian casualties and the suffering
the Israeli mission in Gaza is causing
now with Hamas using gazans as human
Shields is there a possibility at all to
fight the terrorists without creating
unbearable hardship for
civilians well that was a problem that
the US and the British forces had in
Afghanistan and then it it depends on
the situation of course but then you
would have to abort the operation in
order not to create um more casualties
or collateral damage but in some
military situations you have to take the
risk um knowing that this will create a
a collateral damage if the military
objective is important enough so it will
be situational but of course uh there
will all always be criticism because
nobody's on the ground to assess the
situation and to say indeed this was the
right time to strike the terrorist um
despite the fact that there were people
around as Marina Mor military analyst
from Kings College London thanks so
much thank you for having
me